Chat GPT uninstall spike 295% in a
single day. Experts say open AI could
run out of cash by mid-2027. Open AI
just honestly looks desperate.
Meanwhile, you got Claude that has been
on the rise. Claude has emerged as one
of the most favored AI platform. That
guy Claude is very busy.
>> Anthropic has updated its AI model
Claude Opus 4.6. It hit number one spot
on the App Store dethroning Chat GPT for
the first time ever. My team and I run
AI across dozens of companies every
single day and I see what works and what
doesn't. And that's why I've switched
everybody over to Claude. So in this
video, I'm going to walk you through
what I found when I looked under the
hood of both companies, the tools inside
Claude that most people don't even know
exist, and if you stick around till the
very end, I'm going to show you exactly
how to make the switch from Chat GPT or
any AI to Claude without losing your
memory, your context, or your [music]
projects. Starting with why I'm betting
on Claude in the first place. You got to
bet on the right horse. Whatever
AI tool I choose is going to be a
massive part of my workflow, my team, my
companies I'm involved in, how I
freaking operate. So I have to pick the
right horse when it comes to AI. Open AI
right now starting to run ads inside its
product. If you think it's free, it's
not. You know who's paying? You with
your data. They're projected to do 14
billion in loss in '26 and a lot of the
analysts are projecting that they're
going to run out of cash by mid-2027.
They've got 1.5 trillion dollars in
financial commitments and they don't
have the revenue to back it up. And
that's not playing offense. That's
making moves out of pressure. Then you
have
>> Anthropic, the people who built Claude.
Cash burns dropping every year. They're
on track to break even years before Open
AI and their revenues doubled in the
last 12 months from 10 to 20 billion.
It's crazy because they're a third of
the size of Open AI. So right off the
bat, they're more efficient. And the
most important part, the people that are
at the edge of AI are picking Claude.
Plus, Claude's entire ecosystem is
leading the pack in the whole AI space.
They're literally the innovators. Claude
chat, your best writing and research
partner. Crazy. Claude Chrome, it does
things in your browser for you when you
don't know where the thing is on the
website. Claude co-work, doing the work
on your actual computer, refiling,
restructuring, searching for stuff. And
Claude code, allowing you to write
custom solutions, scripts, whatever you
need without knowing how to write code.
And that's why I want to go into each
one of these so you can see what I mean.
Point number two, Claude chat. Most
people assume that it's basically the
same as Chat GPT. It's not. First,
memory. Chat GPT holds a million token
context window and you've got Claude
saying the same. Here's the deal, it's
not how big it is, it's how it's used.
And Claude's just stays sharper and more
relevant where Chat GPT just trying to
play catch up, just throwing stuff at
the wall. It's like comparing engine
types. You can have the same 6 L
engines, but they don't work the same.
The second is tonality. Just look at how
Chat GPT answers you. It's literally
like it just gives you an answer. Claude
gives you something a sharp person on
your team would have written. Why? It's
memory, it's structure, the way it's
taught. For writing, it's always been
the best, but now it's getting really
good for framework strategy.
Essentially, the voice control is on a
completely different level for how it
actually helps you. For example, at
Martel Ventures, we have people applying
all the time for investments. So we have
them fill out an intake form which has a
bunch of data, revenue, team size, their
struggles, their goals, everything. When
we were using Chat GPT to analyze that,
all the insight was just surface level.
Kind of stuff that any basic person
could figure out. Claude found
correlations between revenue ranges,
pain points, and even brought up things
that we didn't even think to think
[music] about. A completely different
analysis. And in simple terms, when you
use Claude versus GPT, it just feels
more substantial, more polished, more
more relevant. It's like talking to a
really smart person that can also
explain themselves in very simple terms
to make you feel smart. GPT just feels
like it's annoyed with you. And look,
we're going to dive into some really
geeky stuff at the end of this video and
it can be a little overwhelming. So if
you want, I put together an AI cheat
sheet that shows CEOs and their teams
how to do twice the work in half the
time. It'll help you understand
everything we're about to talk about. So
if you want that, just DM me the word
YouTube AI on Instagram and I'll send it
right over. All right, so Claude thinks
better and it writes better. But what
about when you're working in your
browser? That's where Claude in Chrome
comes in and it's going to blow your
mind. Point three is Claude in Chrome.
Now, I know, does it work in other
browsers? They're not supported yet. And
honestly, Chrome's the best one, so just
migrate yourself over to Chrome. This
browser extension, which is is very
simple, just go to the extensions, the
browser, and just go install, okay? And
then it's going to ask you to connect to
your Claude account, boom, you're good
to go. Essentially, this extension turns
your browser into an AI-powered
workspace. [music] Claude sits in this
little tiny panel to the right and it
sees what you see, it knows where you're
at, it knows what you're doing, and you
can ask it anything. You can have your
email open and say, "Hey, process this
thread of emails and tell me the TLDR",
which means summary. You could be in
Amazon and be like, "I need to turn on
two-factor authentication cuz I heard
security's a thing" and ask it to do it
and it will navigate Amazon and do it
for you. I even had it, this one's going
to blow your mind, don't tell my team. I
had it go through all my Slack messages,
find the ones I didn't reply to, reply
for them, save the replies in a
spreadsheet
[music]
so I could see what I said to the people
because I One of the things I do as a
keynote speaker is create slides for my
presentations. I have hundreds of slides
I've done in the past. All I did was
gave co-work access to that folder. It
analyzed my slides and I asked it to
create new slides for a new talk and all
I gave it was the outline. And it found
the images and it put the words and it
restructured because it had access to
all my files. How much time do you spend
trying to recreate systems, processes
for your clients, for your team when you
have enough history for it to learn off
of and it can actually create a first
draft that's pretty freaking done all by
itself. So here's a real example that
you can do right now. Let's say every
Monday you've got to send a weekly
update to your team, [music] which most
people have to do. You can tell co-work,
I'm just going to use that little button
here to listen to my voice, "Pull the
latest updates from my project docs."
And I let go. It knows how to read
through your files, it can figure out
what is a project doc, and then you can
tell it, "Summarize the key updates and
send a recap [music] on Slack." And then
co-work writes the summary and just
sends it. If you set it up in a
schedule, that's a 10-minute task that
you never have to do ever again. You
keep stacking those 10-minute tasks, all
of a sudden you get two, three hours
back a day. Co-work. And here's the big
idea. With AI, you don't need to do the
work, you need to direct it. [music] Be
the director, not the doer. All right,
so this next one is for my technical
friends, the people that like to be at
the edge. For all the nerds out there,
this one is insane. Point number five,
Claude code. Have you ever written a
line of code? Cool part is, it doesn't
matter. You don't need to. Claude code
builds custom tools, websites,
automations built exactly for your
business. All you got to do to program
it is describe with words what you want
in plain English [music]
and Claude
builds it. You know how I said it was
for the nerds? I lied. Anybody can do
it. I've taught my 12-year-old son all
the way to my 60-year-old CEO. He's not
60. He loves when I say that. His name
is Todd. Instead of paying tens of
thousands of dollars to a programmer to
build these things that kind of fit and
then you got to iterate and go back and
forth, it just builds exactly what you
need. And if it doesn't, you just go,
"Please change this. Please add this."
My favorite is, "It's not working. Can
you fix it?" And you'll watch it debug
itself. The crazy part is the people who
built Claude Code use Claude Code to
build itself. All my engineers that work
for me at Martel Ventures, they've all
chosen Claude Code. It is the best, it's
the cleanest, it's got the best output,
the best planning. You get to use the
same power as my nerdy team to build
whatever you want. And what makes this
awesome is because they all live in the
same ecosystem. You got chat in the
Chrome browser extension and co-work and
code, it all lives in that same place.
So, what I do is I go to chat for my
ideation, then I research stuff using
Chrome and collect it. Then I execute
any automation in co-work and then I
build custom tools in code. These are
the foundations for you to have full
autonomy, to have it work for you so
that you're not doing this. I believe in
this so much that recently I shut down
my company for 2 days to teach everybody
how to use Claude Code. Literally 100
people stopped working so I could teach
them how to use this. I brought in
people that could help them with the
configuration. You built little teams,
they chose problems in the business they
wanted to solve. I watched every one of
those teams build tools that almost
automated their whole workload. The
demos were crazy, the inspiration was
high, and the best part is everybody
left feeling confident that they were
prepared for the future. And look,
shutting down the company was a massive
investment in time and productivity and
just real cost, salary, labor, etc. and
hiring people to come in and teach them.
But, I believe the output was massive.
Like a 3x improvement. Plus, we solved
the biggest problems in the business in
those 2 days so we get that benefit and
we get the benefit of compounding growth
over time. So, here's an example that
you can do right now. Let's say you need
a landing page. So, I just open up
Claude Code, which is another tab in the
app. So, I've got chat, co-work,
>> [music]
>> and code. So, I'm just going to hold
down my whisper flow and I'll say
something like, "Build me a landing page
for my coaching business. The offer is
12 weeks and essentially it's for
business owners who want to buy back
their time. Let's say the price is
$5,000. Include a headline, three
benefits, testimonial section, and a
sign-up button."
Stop. Watch it cook. Claude builds a
full page. And look, if I don't like the
way it looks, I just say, "Redesign it.
Make it look like Apple." Enter. Now
watch. It looks awesome. And you
didn't have to do anything. You didn't
have to mess with CSS and JavaScript and
try to figure out how to host or do any
of that crazy stuff. And if you were to
pay somebody to do this, it would cost
you anywhere from 5 to 15,000 dollars.
And the cool part is that if you're
like, "What happens after the button
they hit submit?" You can just tell it,
"Write the feature that allows the email
to get captured and put into my email
marketing tool." What email marketing
tool? You tell me. Which one do you use?
Do you want to use Mailchimp? It's free.
Cool. Load it into Mailchimp. Learning
to let go from the need of doing it and
trusting the tool to go create for you
is the opportunity for everybody. And if
you still feel confused while it's doing
it, you can just tell it,
"Assume I am non-technical and I'm
confused. Please tell me how you just
did that." And it will. So, now you've
seen the full picture. You've got chat,
you've got the Chrome tool, you've got
co-work and code, all there. But, I know
there's something still holding you
back. So, we've got to fix that [music]
right now. Point number six, make the
switch. You're probably thinking to
yourself, "I have spent months in
ChatGPT. It knows my voice, it has my
stuff, it knows my business, and I just
don't want to start over. Is it really
that good, man?" It takes [music] 2
minutes to make that switch without
losing any of that. So, you just go into
your settings, click capabilities,
import memory from an AI provider, and
hit [music] start import. So, then
Claude gives you a pre-written prompt
that you just got to copy. Then you go
into ChatGPT or any other tool you're
using and you paste that prompt. So,
that'll tell the AI how to pull out
everything it knows. So, then it'll spit
out everything about you, your
preferences, your context, how you work.
So, then you copy that output and then
you go back into Claude and then you
paste it into the text box and then you
click add to memory. Done. Easy peasy.
Everything your old AI learned about
you, it's all in there and now you've
got the power of Claude in all these
tools at your disposal. So, now you can
start to use Claude without having to
start from scratch. And if you want to
see the power of Claude even further,
here's my pro tip. Just go to
connectors, add your Gmail and Google
Docs, and ask it to create a tone
writing guide and save it as [music] a
skill. It's this simple. Just write,
"Build a write like Dan insert your name
skill for my last 50 cent emails and 10
recent Google Docs." Watch it do that.
You're like, "How does it know how to
write like me?" It learned from your
existing tools and then created its own
skill. That's a Claude [music] thing for
another day, but just try it. Have some
fun with it. It'll change your life.
So, I get it. This could feel crazy
overwhelming. There's a lot of different
tools and a lot of different names and
it's like, "What's the difference
between co-work and code and how do I
think about chat?" Here's my challenge
to you. Use Claude as your main AI for 1
week. Not as a backup, not as a test,
your primary tool. Give it your hardest
problems, your hardest questions. Go
play there. Then come back and tell me
what changed below in the comments. I
also want you to leave a comment below
and let me know the first thing you
would build with co-work or code that
you couldn't before. If you could have a
full-time engineering team building
software for you, what would you want
them to build? Leave me a comment below.
And remember, if you want to become an
AI-powered user and get twice the work
done in half the time, DM me the word
YouTube AI on Instagram and I'll send
you my AI cheat sheet for free. Now, if
you want to learn how to use any AI and
get better outputs, click here and I'll
see you on the other side.